how's it going everybody this is jon
mclennan and i'm here today with guitar
control.com bringing you this guitar
lesson and today i want to talk a little
bit about major 7th chords and 7th
chords you may be getting you and your
basic chords together and maybe you're
getting your lead playing and there's so
much stuff on the internet for Lex and
things but what I wanted to remind us
all is that as we're working on our lead
playing you know we need to always keep
working on a rhythm and expanding our
chord vocabulary so the chords you know
the inversions and the voicings and then
just working on learning harder chords
and stretching out your fingers so
today's lesson is going to be on
precisely that you know playing up an
entire chord scale with 7th chords maybe
some new voice things you haven't
discovered yet so let's jump right in on
this is in the key of g g major 7 chord
and this is a real great voicing it's
literally starts on the second fret and
it goes just line your fingers up so you
got all those nodes together and your
route it's right here or i can also
initialize down here
major 7 yeah and then the next chord is
gonna be you know the next chord in the
scale which is going to be a minor 7 so
I have basically the 3rd fret 5th fret
fret and then say nice voicing you can
even play the Avery
and then for the next chord you're
literally just going to move that up a
whole step which is two frets so I'm at
977 54 B minor 7 and then I'm going to
play a major 7 which is the same as the
first quarter starting on the 7th fret d
7 which this basically is almost the
same as if your score but i'm lowering
the first finger one fret this will be 8
10 12 p-2 a minor 7 again 14 and then a
minor 7 flat 5 which would be 12 13 14
16 and then resolving here to our G
major said